#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Pulling down the code and deploying it =
The live version of this software is at http://ballingerapp.appspot.com/
The control panel for it is at http://appengine.google.com/dashboard?&app_id=ballingerapp

All code uploaded to the Google App Engine server is contained in this source repository.  To pull down the code for local execution, you need to follow the steps below:

 * Download python 2.5 (preferably, although 2.6 will work for this project)
 * Download Google App Engine SDK
 * Check out the project using SVN
  * any decent linux distro should have SVN, the subversion version control software command line client.
  * svn checkout https://carletonrisk.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ whatToCallYourLocalCopy --username YourExactGoogleUserName (probably something like ThomasBallinger)

Now you have a local copy of the code.  To run it on a local server:
 * dev_appserver.py helloworld (that's the name of the folder that is the root of the portion of the project that we upload - it has to be in your current directory)
 * Direct a web browser to http://localhost:8080/

To update you local copy in case something has changed:
 * svn update (while at the top level of the directory) or svn update whatYouCalledYourLocalCopy (from the directory above it)

Once you've made a change you like or finished the general task you intended to do, you should propgate your changes to the repository so everyone can see and use them.
 * svn commit file (file can be just the one you changed, or just whatYouCalledYourLocalCopy, and only things you changed will be updated)
  * You'll have to type your Google email, your password, and (only the first time on a given computer) your special google code password available here: https://code.google.com/hosting/settings
  * More information about this process is available here: http://code.google.com/p/carletonrisk/source/checkout

You can test things on your computer all day, but eventually you want to change the live version.
 * If it's a big change, first change the version number in the app.yaml file.
 * appcfg.py update helloworld (then enter your google email and password)

That's it!  You've just changed